(Original)
The 2020 Atlantic Hurricane season set a record for the most named storms at 30. Once the 2021 season finished at 21, it marked the first time ever that the English named storm list was exhausted in back to back seasons. 2021 also marked the 6th consecutive year of above-average activity. Anthropogenic climate change (ACC) may play a role in causing these unusually active hurricane seasons. In this paper, we prove the existence of a causal relationship using counterfactual causal theory (CCT). We employ the use of in-silico experimentation to provide a realization of a counterfactual world without the effects of ACC and use strategies utilized in recent literature regarding applying CCT to demonstrate the causation of ACC on other climate phenomena. We also evaluate the use of more recent developments in CCT not yet applied in this space, as well as compare our method to non-counterfactual methods in the space of linking ACC to increased hurricane activity. With these contributions, we hope to improve the existing framework of identifying causes of climate phenomena, which can aid in strategizing mitigation efforts.

(Current)
The 2020 North Atlantic Hurricane season set a record for the most named storms in recorded hustory at 30. The accumulated cyclone energy (ACE) for the year finished at 180.3725, which classifies the season as "Extremely Active" by the NOAA. Anthropogenic climate change may play a role in impacting the intensity of hurricane seasons, and causing the observation of extremely active seasons such as 2020. In this paper, we aim to study the attribution of anthropogenic climate change on the 2020 Atlantic Hurricane season. We circumvent the unavailability of desired simulated hurricane data through a novel workflow. We build a machine learning model to predict ACE given a set of features affecting hurricane development, secure counterfactual and factual simulation output of these features and apply another machine learning model to perform a time series forecast to overcome the fact none of the simulations extend to 2020, then make counterfactual and factual ACE predictions for 2020 using the first model. From there, we utilize a causal counterfactual framework to detremine the probability of necessity, sufficiency, and both of anthropogenic climate change on the 2020 season. Our method yields that climate change is likely to be necessary but not likely to be sufficient to explain the season, but may also be considered sufficient if the question is altered to whether a season like 2020 could have occured ina time frame prior to the year itself. While this remains a work-in-progress, we have encouraging results so far.
